# Memory Assist

Memory Assist is a tool that helps you manage and recall important information effectively.

## How It Works

### Audio Transcription

Memory Assist allows you to record audio transcriptions of important information. When you save a transcription, the program performs the following steps:
1. **Generate Summary and Keywords:** The transcription is processed using the GPT API to generate a concise summary and extract relevant keywords.
2. **Save Transcription:** The transcription, along with its summary, keywords, and metadata (date and time of recording) is saved in the `documents` folder.

### Semantic Search Engine

When a search is performed, Memory Assist uses a semantic search engine to find relevant information. Here’s how the process works:
1. **Vectorize Summaries:** The summaries of all saved transcriptions are vectorized using TF-IDF vectorization. This creates a numerical representation of the summaries for efficient comparison.
2. **Search and Rank:** When a query is entered, the semantic search engine vectorizes the query and calculates the cosine similarity between the query vector and the summary vectors. The documents are then ranked based on their relevance to the query.
3. **Retrieve Context:** The top-ranked summaries are selected to provide context for answering the user's query.
4. **Log Search Process:** The ranked files and their similarities are logged to the command line, along with each file's summary, keywords, and metadata.
5. **Query GPT:** The GPT API is queried using the selected context and the user's original question. This ensures that the response is relevant and informed by the most suitable documents.
6. **Return Response:** The response generated by GPT is displayed to the user, providing a concise and relevant answer to the query.

## Table of Contents

- [Installation](#installation)
- [Configuration](#configuration)
- [Usage](#usage)
- [Contributing](#contributing)
- [License](#license)

## Installation

1. Clone the repository:

    ```bash
    git clone https://github.com/John-Auerbach/Memory-Assist.git
    cd memory-assist
    ```

2. Install the necessary dependencies:

    ```bash
    pip install
    ```

## Configuration

Before using Memory Assist, you need to configure your API key.

1. Create a `.env` file in the `memory-assist` folder.

    ```bash
    touch .env
    ```

2. Open the `.env` file in a text editor and add your API key:

    ```text
    API_KEY=your_api_key
    ```

    Replace `your_api_key` with your actual API key.

## Usage

To start the application, run:

```bash
python app.py








